# Homework 4

Name: Qing Teng

UNI: qt2126

Date: April 8th, 2019

## Problem 1

### 1.

The difficulties are: 1) the C-space is six-dimensional and it is difficult and slow to build and search through such a space; and 2) the graph describing the free space will have a very large number of nodes.

The technique described in this paper potentially alleviates these difficulties. By decomposing the C-space into hexagonal cells, the technique effectively decreases both the search dimension and the number of nodes in the search space.

Hexagonal decomposition does not present similar drawbacks, because the algorithm will only search through a number of cells, and cells are only decomposed into smaller cells when needed.

### 2.

A straightforward method would be to enlarge the region by a fixed factor, which could be supplied by the user. The implementation is as follows:

```
Input: factor, target workstation, center and radius of previous region
Output: Obstacles in enlarged region, center and radius of enlarged region

enlarge_region_by_factor(params):
	radius *= factor
	region = Circle(center, radius)
	
	obstacles_in_region = list()
	for obstacle in obstacles:
		if has_overlap(obstacle, region):
			obstacles_in_region.append(obstacle)
	for workstation in workstations:
		if not workstation == target and has_overlap(workstation, region):
			obstacles_in_region.append(workstation)
	
	return obstacles_in_region, center, radius
```

The procedure would be combined with the overall search algorithm through the modification to step 5:

5. If there are no hexagons to select: if the current region does not cover the map,  `enlarge_region_by_factor`  and repeat from 3. Otherwise, return `False` (no solutions for this map).

### 3.



### 4.

This is correct. First, lets suppose this would lead to an incorrect outcome, as in the algorithm outputs "no solutions" when there actually are solutions. Since this is due to marking visited hexagons as IMPASSABLE when they are actually PASSABLE, it can be assumed that the solution path visits the same hexagon twice. However, both the repellent forces and the attractive forces are *static* - they will not change between two visits of the same hexagon. This means that the robot, when visiting some hexagon the second time, will make exactly the same decision as it made the first time! Thus the robot would fall into a loop and will not be able to reach the goal, which contradicts with our supposition.

Similarly, if this would lead to the robot taking a longer path, it can be assumed that a shorter path visits the same hexagon twice. We know from the previous paragraph that this will not happen. Therefore, this strategy is correct.

### 5.

The robot is initially attracted toward the left-hand side because the potential is lower. According to the paper, the potential is given as $\sum k_1\frac{1}{r_i^2}-C(1-k_2\alpha)$, where $r_i$ is the distance between the center of the $i$th obstacle and point $P$, and $\alpha$ is the angle between the line connecting the center of the workstation and the mobile robot and the direction of the motion of the mobile robot.

In Figure 12, when the robot is at the second hexagon, it can either go to the top-left or the bottom-right. It cannot go to the top-right because it is IMPASSABLE. Both candidate cells need decomposing because they are MIXED. If the robot moves to the bottom-right cell, the direction of the motion of the robot would be towards the bottom-right. If the robot moves to the top-left cell, the direction of the motion of the robot would be towards the top-left. Evidently, the latter direction is more consistent with the direction of the goal. So it is likely that the potential of the top-left cell is lower than the potential of the bottom-right cell, and the robot will move to the left.

If we have knowledge of the environment and obstacles beforehand, we could assign repellent force conditionally. For example, in the case of Figure 12, we could assign a large repellent force to the dark obstacle when the robot was just starting out. Therefore, the robot would be repelled from the left and move towards the right. After the robot has passed the dark obstacle, we want to decrease the repellent force of that obstacle, so the robot will again be attracted by the goal and head left.

If it is not possible to change the repellent function while the robot is moving, we could also assign high repellent force for the bottom edge of the obstacle and low repellent force for the top edge of the obstacle. As in, instead of having $k_1\frac{1}{r_i^2}$ with $r_i$ being the distance between the center of the $i$th obstacle and point $P$, we will have $r_{ib}$ as the distance between the bottom edge of the $i$th obstacle and point $P$ and $r_{it}$ as the distance between the top edge and point $P$. We will also have different $k​$s for the bottom and top edge.